#summary Answers to common questions
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

*NOTE:* If your question has to do with the engine behavior itself, please also look [http://www.box2d.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=558 here].  Most of these have to do specifically with the jbox2d distribution.

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=Building=
==What is the project structure?  What's with all of these sub-projects?==
JBox2D uses Maven for building.  Most IDE's support maven, eclipse-specific instructions are in the getting started wiki page, but basically you go to 'import' then 'import maven projects'.  Navigate to the jbox2d folder, and import all of the projects.

==How do I customize the settings?==
Most of the engine-specific settings are `static final` for performance.  If you need to customize these settings (we recommend you don't), build from the source and look at the Settings.java file in the common package of the library.

==I don't care about having my own build, where are the jars?==
Take a look in the `target` folder of each project, there should be jars there.

==I'm have trouble with `protoc` failing when I build the serialization project, what is that?  Does that matter?==
That project requires the [http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/ protocol buffer] library to be installed.  This is only required if you change things in the .proto file for proto serialization.  Otherwise, the sources are already generated and in source control.

=Running=
==I want to see some examples.  How do I run the testbed?==
Grab the lastest version and navigate to the `jbox2d-testbed` folder.  This is the testbed project.  There should be an executable jar in the `target` folder, with the suffix "with-dependencies".  Double click that one, or run it from the command line with the command `java -jar jbox2d-<version>-with-dependencies.jar`

==I want to make something with this engine.  What's the best way to start?==
It is HIGHLY recommended to start out by making a testbed test.  The purpose of the testbed is to provide all of the graphics, animation, and settings, so you only have to work with the physics engine itself.  Take a look at the [Testbed Testbed] page for more info.
 
==What is the SLF4J error?  Static logger?==
This does *not* mean anything is wrong.  It is just letting you know that the library uses [http://www.slf4j.org/ SLF4J] to log messages, and there isn't a logger binding available.  If you wish to see error messages, include a logging jar and config file (See the website for details).

=Bugs=
==I think I found a bug, what do I do?==
Please report all bugs in the issues tab.  We greatly appreciate if you could:
  * Make a testbed test of the bug.
  * Give the smallest example possible that demonstrates the bug.

This allows us to easily run the test and see the bug, and ensures we fix it as quickly as possible.

=Contributing=
==I want to help out, what do I do?==
First of all, that's awesome! We'd love your help. Please contact Daniel Murphy (toucansam99 at gmail).